
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# Meta-clustering with Similarity Network Fusion (metasnf)

<!-- badges: start -->

<!-- badges: end -->

## Overview

*metasnf* is a package that facilitates usage of the meta clustering
paradigm described in (Caruana et al. [2006](#ref-caruanaMeta2006)) with
the similarity network fusion (SNF) data integration procedure developed
in (Wang et al. [2014](#ref-wangSimilarity2014)).

This package makes use of a few key structures to enable repeated
iterations of SNF with distinct clustering hyperparameters and
combinations of input variables.

The clarity and performance of this package likely would have benefited
from an [object-oriented
approach](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming),
but because I didn’t know what object-oriented programming was and
nobody talks about [object-oriented programming in
R](https://adv-r.hadley.nz/oo.html), this package just uses lots and
lots of nested lists : ).

The major structures are:

### The `design_matrix`

The `design_matrix` is a dataframe that includes all tunable clustering
settings as columns. Each row represents a distinct set of clustering
settings that will be used to produce a single clustering solution by
SNF and spectral clustering.

### The `data_list`

The `data_list` is a nested list that contains all preprocessed input
data that is ready to be used for clustering. Each list within a
`data_list` contains (1) a dataframe that will be used for clustering,
(2) the name of that dataframe, (3) the **domain** of that dataframe,
(4) the **subdomain** of that dataframe, and (5) the type of data
(numerical, categorical, or mixed) of the features within that
dataframe.

Domains are user-specified labels that indicate which dataframes
describe similar sources of data. For example, structural MRI data and
diffusion MRI data may be grouped within a neuroimaging domain.

Subdomains are user-specified labels for further granularity. For
example, a cortical thickness dataframe and a subcortical volume
dataframe may be grouped within a structural MRI subdomain.

### The `outcome_list`

An optional data structure that closely resembles the `data_list`, but
contains data sources which are not meant to be included as direct
inputs for clustering. Data within the `outcome_list` is reserved for
out-of-model measures for comparing completed clustering solutions.

### The `output_matrix`

The `output_matrix` is a large dataframe that appends cluster solution
columns (one column per subject) to the `design_matrix`. It contains all
the clustering results generated by the different settings included in
the `design_matrix`.

## Installation

You can install the development version of metasnf from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")

# Recommended approach (requires SSH to be set up on your machine):
# See: https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent
remotes::install_git("git@github.com:psvelayudhan/metasnf.git")

# Alternative approach using Github personal authentication token
# See: https://github.com/settings/tokens
remotes::install_github("psvelayudhan/metasnf", auth_token = "your_pat_here")

# If this repository ever becomes public:
# devtools::install_github("psvelayudhan/metasnf")
```

## References

<div id="refs" class="references">

<div id="ref-caruanaMeta2006">

Caruana, Rich, Mohamed Elhawary, Nam Nguyen, and Casey Smith. 2006.
“Meta Clustering.” In *Sixth International Conference on Data Mining
(ICDM’06)*, 107–18. <https://doi.org/10.1109/ICDM.2006.103>.

</div>

<div id="ref-wangSimilarity2014">

Wang, Bo, Aziz M. Mezlini, Feyyaz Demir, Marc Fiume, Zhuowen Tu, Michael
Brudno, Benjamin Haibe-Kains, and Anna Goldenberg. 2014. “Similarity
Network Fusion for Aggregating Data Types on a Genomic Scale.” *Nature
Methods* 11 (3): 333–37. <https://doi.org/10.1038/nmeth.2810>.

</div>

</div>
